If your games keep stuttering and you
get low FPS or FPS drops on your PC or
laptop, this video is the one for you.
I'm going to show you how to boost FPS,
fix stutters, and FPS drops by using a
free Windows optimizer to optimize your
Windows PC without any BS. So, let's get
right into it. So, go down into the
description and download the Sparkle
installer. Then, right click on it and
run it as admin. Then, the installation
shall begin and we're going to be
installing it as we install any other
[music] software. Once the installation
is done, it's going to automatically
launch and give you these options. Close
out of this and go ahead and create a
system restore point. This is highly
recommended. So, simply click on it and
then it's going to go ahead and create a
system restore point automatically. All
right, the restore point has been
created and now we can move on to using
this software. On the dashboard, we have
all of our system specs and then we can
move on to the tweaks tab for optimizing
the Windows. As you can see, there are
different categories of tweaks that we
can apply, but we're going to be keeping
it to all and then applying every single
one that is recommended or safe to use.
First one is debloat Windows. Removes
unnecessary Windows features and apps
and it is recommended. So, I'm going to
hit on apply. It is recommended to
create a backup before applying this
tweak. So, I'm going to click on apply
and then it's going to go ahead and
remove a lot of the apps and features as
you can see. So basically, it's going to
go ahead and just use the PowerShell in
order to run the script. And it's going
to remove all of these apps that are
built into the Windows such as Bing
News, sport, travel, and all of that
junk that is pre-loaded by Microsoft.
All right. Now that the Windows is
debloated, we can move on to the
ultimate performance power plan. It's
going to enable and applies the Windows
[music] Ultimate Performance Power Plan
for better performance. So, we're going
to turn this on, and I assume that it's
going to go ahead and apply it
automatically. Then align the taskbar to
the left is a Windows 11 feature, so we
don't really need it. Detailed BSOD.
This one is a quality of life
improvement and it adds detailed
information to the blue screen of death.
So it's really not important for the
performance purposes. Then disable
background MS store apps. We're going to
go ahead and enable this one and it's
going to disable the Microsoft Store
apps from running in the background,
which should help free up some
resources. Then disable Copilot will
remove Microsoft Copilot features and it
will fail if it is not installed. So I'm
just going to go ahead and disable it.
Disable core isolation. It disables the
core isolation memory integrity to
improve system performance. Now, if you
don't know, I have always recommended to
use this tweak. So, it's really good to
see this one here. Disable defender RTP
or real-time protection. Now, this one
is a bit risky. So, those of you who do
not surf the internet safely, I don't
recommend using this one. But for those
of you who know what they are doing,
simply go ahead and disable the
real-time protection. Disable dynamic
ticking. Improves the system
responsiveness and reduces latency by
disabling dynamic timer ticks. And if I
hover over this, it may increase power
consumption. So for laptop users, the
one that may increase power consumption,
I don't really recommend those unless
your laptop is powerful enough or of
course you have it plugged in. But since
I'm on a desktop PC, I'm going to go
ahead and enable this. Disable fast
startup. It will disable Windows fast
startup to improve the system stability.
Those of you who don't know, what this
will do is basically make sure that all
of the services are running before
actually launching you into the window.
So, your boot time may increase a bit,
but the overall system stability and
performance will of course improve.
Disable game bar is self-explanatory.
Disable hibernation is of course really
self-explanatory. Then we have the
disable location tracking, which
disables Windows location tracking. This
one is good for privacy as well. Disable
lock screen tips, of course. Disable
mouse acceleration. This one is really
good if you are playing FPS games and
you don't want the acceleration because
that can really mess up with your aim.
So, I highly recommend you to disable
this and then go ahead and hit apply.
Disable Wi-Fi sense. It disables Wi-Fi
sense to prevent sharing of Wi-Fi
networks with contacts. For me, this
doesn't really make any difference, so
I'm going to go ahead and disable it.
Enable dark mode will of course enable
dark mode, but since we already have it
on, I'm not going to need it. Enable end
task with right click. You can add the
endask option to the context menu.
Another one of quality of life
improvements. Not really anything to do
with performance. Enable HPE or high
precision event timer. It's going to
enable HPE instead of disabling it. and
it says it can reduce stuttering and
improve timing accuracy on some
hardware. However, keep in mind that
this may have the opposite effect on
some other hardware. So, for this one,
you will definitely have to test it out
for yourself whether disabling it or
enabling it works better. In my case,
I'm going to go ahead and leave it
disabled. Optimize network settings
changes various Windows settings to
improve network latency and speeds. So,
after using this, I'll be really curious
to see how it impacts my ping inside of
Fortnite, especially optimize Nvidia
settings. Since I have an AMD card, I'm
going to go ahead and skip this one. But
those of you with an Nvidia card can go
ahead and apply this one. And I'm
actually surprised to not see any AMD
[music] tweaks, which is kind of a
bummer. Then there is the remove gaming
apps. It's going to remove Xbox app,
Xbox Game Bar, and Xbox game overlay.
Now, I do play a few games that do
require this, so I'm going to keep it
in. But otherwise, for you guys, go
ahead and hit on apply, and it's going
to remove these. Remove one drive. I
highly recommend you to remove one drive
and I already have it removed. So
enabling this will do nothing for me but
I'm still going to do it for the sake of
the video. Revert context menu is just
going to go ahead and revert this
context menu back to default as it is.
But since I haven't added anything to
it, I don't really need it. Run disk
cleanup. I will go ahead and clean up
the C drive. So I'm going to go ahead
and turn it on and it should run the
disc cleanup utility as you can see. So
it automatically selected and deleted a
lot of the stuff using the Windows disc
cleanup utility. And now it has
successfully resolved the low disk space
condition. Next up is setting services
to manual. Set various Windows services
to manual startup type to improve the
Windows performance. So I'm assuming
it's only going to set those which are
really safe to set to manual as to avoid
breaking anything. So I'm going to go
ahead and turn it on and then just trust
it to not break anything. And that's
basically it for all of these tweaks.
Now we can move on to the cleaner.
However, in my opinion, this one tab is
completely useless because if I go back
to tweaks, you can remember that we use
the run disk cleanup utility which
basically does all of this from just one
place. So having this is really not
useful at all in my opinion. Then we can
move on to restore points and this is
the restore point that we just made
before using this utility. We can go
ahead and use it right here in order to
revert all of these tweaks and changes.
Then let's move on to utilities. So we
have the run system file checker which I
assume it's going to run the check disk
utility from the cmd the disism health
restore. Then there is also the run disk
check. So all of these are the commands
that are run inside of cmd in order to
make sure that your windows files and
the discs are completely healthy and
there is nothing corrupted inside of
them. These can take some time so we're
going to be skipping them for the video
but you can go ahead and run these
whenever you want. Then there is the run
show power plan. So we're going to click
on it. Click on run and it shows
nothing. I have no idea why. There's
also the run reset IP stack, the run
reset wind sock, run flash DNS cache and
the disck cleanup utility once again for
some reason. Then there are some quick
access options such as opening up the
registry, the task manager, system
information, device manager, and all of
that good [music] stuff. Then there are
apps. So these are, I believe, all of
the apps that we can download and
install from within this software, which
is actually a pretty handy feature if
you are going to be installing your
Windows from scratch. You can go ahead
and select any [music] app that you want
and then go ahead and simply click on
install selected and it should download
and install those apps onto your PC. And
looking at this selection, the app
selection is actually quite good as
well. You can find pretty much all of
the apps that you will be needing in
order to set up a new Windows. Finally,
let's move on to settings. We have got
the theme [music]
and yeah, we have also got the Discord
rate preference, show your sparkle
activity on Discord, which we can
disable. We have also got the analytics
which requires a restart. We got the
data management and logs. And that's all
basically it. Now we can go ahead and
click on restart now to restart this.
But we can go ahead and close out of
this. Restart our PC and then enjoy the
improved performance. Let's move on to
the benchmarks. So in Fortnite, the
average FPS went from 166 to just around
200, which is quite a bit of
improvement, while the 1% lows went from
110 to around 143, which once again is
an improvement that I'm happy about.
Moving on to Valerant, the average FPS
went from 216 to above 300, which is
like a 90 FPS improvement on average,
which is huge. And also, the 1% lows
were improved by a lot too, going from
140s to over 180s, which is quite
impressive in my opinion. And you should
definitely be using this if you're going
to play Valerent. But where do I put
this considering all of these other
optimizers? Based on the improvement
that we got in Valerent as well as
Fortnite, I'm going to be putting the
sparkle-free optimizer in the very good
tier. And it's our very first one in the
very good tier as well because not only
did it improve our average FPS, it also
gave us a huge boost in the 1% lows
which are crucial to fix the tours and
FPS drops. So I would highly recommend
that all of you go ahead and give this a
shot. But if you want to optimize your
Windows PC even further and for
completely free, then go ahead and check
out this video right